so imagine that everyone in the world
has decided to skip the next 10
centuries
the entire population of earth goes down
to specially built
underground bunkers and everyone settles
into their comfortable beds
the last person awake sets the alarm
clock for a thousand years in the future
and closes their eyes the millions of
robot helpers which the people say good
night to
are going to stick close to their
sleeping masters they'll monitor their
condition
and observe what happens to our planet
so the people don't leave anyone behind
to look after our civilization
their homes and offices and all of the
world cities
are handed over to nature
already after just one day of sleep
power plants all over the world begin to
shut down
the lights of the cities go out now
there's no tv or internet
the only bright spot left on the planet
is las vegas
it's powered by a hydroelectric power
plant that can keep going unsupervised
for
quite some time but there's nobody left
to party there
and the neon lights shine down on empty
streets
a week later raccoons start to appear in
people's homes
there's no one to scare them off so they
climb in your trash can and help
themselves to your fridge
in fact now they basically run your
house
a domestic animal would have struggled
to keep going without people for even
one week
but fortunately everyone took their pets
down underground to snooze with them
who wouldn't want to sleep for a
thousand years with a cat curled up in
their lap
without electricity the refrigerators
and supermarkets and restaurants will
stop
working food and groceries will soon
start to spoil
the bad smell will attract lots of
different scavengers and pests
a month has passed since the great
snooze started
nature is already beginning to break
into large cities
and i don't just mean the plants the
lions who live in the city zoos have
realized that their enclosures are no
longer electrified
they now rule our towns walking the
streets in search of prey
a year later without any people around
the world's ports are in chaos
ropes have begun to tear and huge cargo
ships are drifting free from their docks
some of them collide with each other or
smash into bridges and sink
the rats who lived on the cruise ships
will finish off the leftover supplies
and they'll start fighting with the
seagulls for scraps
five years of sleep it's impossible to
recognize our cities anymore
vines and ivy have covered buildings and
other plants have turned concrete
streets into gardens
you can't hear the endless honk of car
horns or the music from all the ads on
times square anymore
all that's left is the bird song and the
wind
oh and las vegas has long stopped
lighting up as well
normally astronauts control and correct
the orbit of the international space
station
but now they're asleep back on earth
along with everyone else
the iss soon enters earth's atmosphere
and
falls to the ground ten years
everyone's already had an incredible
amount of dreams
but the real world is changing rapidly
the dams and hydroelectric power plants
near big cities are starting to collapse
without humans there to maintain them
the water breaks through
and floods people's homes water levels
are rising
and new inhabitants fish are appearing
in our cities
within 30 years we'll lose london and
amsterdam
they were built on marshes that were
kept dry by drainage systems
but now nature has got the upper hand
and the streets
slowly start to sink from time to time
our vacant world sees big fireworks
displays
now nobody's celebrating anything the
problem is that forest fires get out of
control
and sometimes they reach old warehouses
full of these things
the results are quite impressive but
there's no audience to watch them
if you look up in the night sky you
might see a meteor shower
but this time it's not caused by rocks
from outer space
but artificial satellites that have
begun to fall down to earth
without humans to guide them there's a
lot of them burning up in the atmosphere
surprisingly 50 years after everyone in
the world went to sleep
you can still hear human speech that's
thanks to the parrots that are old
enough to remember
us plenty of the ones we used to own are
still alive
and they repeat some of the phrases we
used
100 years of sleep humanity is still
only 10 percent of the way there
but the world already looks as if we all
disappeared centuries ago
corrosion along with earthquakes is
destroying some of our greatest
achievements
the golden gate bridge and the brooklyn
bridge have collapsed
big ben burjal arab and other iconic
buildings will be left ruined after a
century
even incredible works of art like the
mona lisa will begin to disappear
right about now microscopic bacteria
begin to eat the timeless painting
and then they're joined by insects that
find a way into her protective glass box
150 years almost a third of all the
world's skyscrapers will be destroyed
the roads that passed over subway
tunnels will collapse
washington will gradually disappear and
los angeles will become a real savannah
with lots of elephants walking around
300 years of sleep all the storage
devices that people once used to save
information
will be damaged beyond repair without
flash drives
cds or paper records human history and
culture will be lost
by that time almost all the cars on
earth will have been destroyed by
corrosion
but their flat tires will continue to
decay for centuries to come
the tower of pisa leans over a little
too far
and oops
500 years of sleep there are very few
buildings left on the planet
the statue of liberty has been destroyed
washington has become a swamp and la is
a desert
the ruins of venice are completely
underwater
and here comes the finish line our
planet has lived without human activity
for exactly one thousand years our big
cities are just green colored ruins
most buildings are almost
indistinguishable from piles of concrete
trash
but amazingly some structures that were
built thousands of years ago
will still be intact the pyramids of
giza and the great wall of
china still stand the only surviving
technology ever made by humans
will be the moon rovers there are seven
of them made by different countries
still intact on the moon in fact the
lunar and mars rovers will still be
around for more than a million years
and hardly suffer from any corrosion
they might end up being the only proof
that our civilization ever existed
and then the alarm clock finally rings
the people wake up and have a good
stretch after so much sleep
their bunkers have maintained the
perfect climate
and they have everything they need to
support life people go up to the surface
to see
what's happened to their world of course
everyone knew
that the planet would be taken over by
nature when they went to sleep
now they face the challenge of building
everything again
they have enough technology and
knowledge left in their bunkers to do
just that
but why did they go to sleep for a
thousand years in the first place
well humanity agreed that it was time to
let the planet
rest a little the atmosphere the oceans
and the animals and plants
are all a little healthier now the
worldwide snooze benefited nature
wild animal populations are back to
normal and almost all our plastic waste
has decomposed
although there's still plenty of toxic
waste buried all over the planet
which will still be around for another
few thousand years
and humans have another opportunity to
get it right
what will they do with their mulligan